The Guidelines apply from June 2019 and include dedicated provisions on the criteria for the evaluation by an institution's internal system of the interest rate risk of an institutions non-trading book activities (IRRBB) as well as the criteria for the identification, management and mitigation by institutions of the IRRBB either if it implements internal systems, the standardised approach or the simplified standardised approach.2.The EBA is mandated to specify in these Guidelines additional criteria for the assessment and monitoring by institutions of their credit spread risk arising from their non-trading book activities (CSRBB).The Guidelines provide a definition and the scope of application of CSRBB.They contain dedicated sections for CSRBB with specific provisions on the identification, assessment and monitoring of CSRBB.Finally, the mandate requests the inclusion of criteria for determining whether the internal systems implemented by institutions for the purpose of evaluating IRRBB are not satisfactory, in which case a competent authority may require an institution to use the standardised methodology.This Final Report on Guidelines on the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities (the Guidelines) is issued on the basis of Article 84 (6) of Directive 2013/36/EU (the Capital Requirements Directive  CRD).The Guidelines are broadly consistent with the Basel standards with some further elaborated sections following the CRD mandate, particularly on CSRBB assessment and monitoring and non- satisfactory IRRBB internal systems.The Guidelines maintain continuity with the previous Guidelines as far as possible, while updating some elements. 

This Final Report on Guidelines on the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities is issued on the basis of Article 84 (6) of Directive 2013/36/EU. The Guidelines provide criteria for the evaluation by an institution's internal system of the interest rate risk of an institutions non-trading book activities (IRRBB) as well as the criteria for the identification, management and mitigation by institutions of the IRRBB either if it implements internal systems, the standardised approach or the simplified standardised approach. Additionally, the Guidelines provide criteria for the assessment and monitoring by institutions of their credit spread risk arising from their non-trading book activities (CSRBB). The Guidelines also include criteria for determining whether the internal systems implemented by institutions for the purpose of evaluating IRRBB are not satisfactory, in which case a competent authority may require an institution to use the standardised methodology.The European Banking Authority (EBA) has updated their Guidelines on the Management of Interest Rate Risk and Credit Spread Risk Arising from Non-Trading Book Activities. This update is in response to the Standards on interest rate risk in the banking book published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS Standards) in April 2016. The Guidelines provide criteria for institutions to identify, evaluate, manage and mitigate interest rate risk of an institution's non-trading book activities, as well as criteria to assess and monitor the credit spread risk on an institution's non-trading book activities. The Guidelines also provide the legal framework for institutions IRRBB internal systems and for the supervisory outlier tests (SOT) calculations if not specified in the relevant Regulatory Technical Standards on SOT.The Guidelines provide a legal framework for assessing and monitoring interest rate risk arising from non-trading book activities (IRRBB) and credit spread risk (CSRBB). They maintain continuity to the 2018 Guidelines in the identification, management and measurement of IRRBB under internal systems, while introducing new elements such as prudent behavioral assumptions on non-maturity deposits from non-financial counterparties. The Guidelines also provide criteria to identify non-satisfactory IRRBB internal systems and elaborate on the assessment and monitoring of CSRBB. Interest income, interest expenses and market value changes should be considered in the measurement of the impact of IRRBB and CSRBB. A five-year cap on weighted average repricing maturity is introduced for certain retail and wholesale deposits without a specified maturity. The EBA will continue to monitor the IRRBB aspects and application of these Guidelines.These Guidelines are addressed to competent authorities and institutions.Definitions 7.For the purpose of these Guidelines, the following definitions apply: (a) “Interest rate risk arising from the banking book” (IRRBB) means the risk of losses in the value of a banking book position or of a portfolio of banking book positions due to changes in interest rates. (b) “Credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities” (CSRBB) means the risk of losses in the value of a non-trading book position or of a portfolio of non-trading book positions due to changes in credit spreads.

These Guidelines issued on the basis of Article 84 (6) of Directive 2013/36/EU specify criteria for the identification, evaluation, management and mitigation of the risks arising from potential changes in interest rates and of the assessment and monitoring of credit spread risk, of institutions non-trading book activities. They are addressed to competent authorities and institutions and define "Interest rate risk arising from the banking book" (IRRBB) and "Credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities" (CSRBB). Competent authorities must notify the EBA as to whether they comply or intend to comply with these Guidelines by 02.05.2023.These Guidelines are addressed to competent authorities and financial institutions in accordance with EU regulations. They define interest rate risk arising from non-trading book activities, interest rate sensitive instruments, credit spread sensitive instruments, gap risk, basis risk, option risk, and credit spread risk from non-trading book activities (CSRBB). They also define net interest income measures and net interest income measures plus market value changes. These Guidelines provide guidance on the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities.This document outlines guidelines on the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. It includes measures of economic value (EV) and economic value of equity (EVE) to measure changes in the net present value of interest rate sensitive instruments or credit spread risk sensitive instruments over their remaining life. It also includes cash flow modelling under the assumption that the timing or amount of cash flows is dependent or independent of the specific interest rate scenario. It also includes a balance sheet including on- and off-balance-sheet items which are adjusted for the relevant scenario in a consistent manner. These guidelines apply at 30 June 2023 with the exception of sections 4.5 and 4.6 that apply at 31 December 2023. Institutions should treat IRRBB and CSRBB as important risks and assess them explicitly and comprehensively in their risk management processes and internal capital assessment processes. They should also identify their exposures and ensure that they are adequately measured, monitored, and controlled.This document outlines guidelines for institutions to consider when managing interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. Institutions should take into account the increase or reduction in the amount of profit and losses and capital over short- and medium-term horizons resulting from interest rate or credit spread movements. They should also consider market value changes of instruments depending on accounting treatment, and the change in the net interest income and market value of instruments under a shock or stress scenario from a going-concern perspective. Institutions should identify their existing and prospective exposures to IRRBB and CSRBB in a proportionate manner, depending on the level, complexity and riskiness of their non-trading book positions. They should also consider their general level of sophistication and internal approaches to risk management when implementing the guidelines. All interest rate sensitive instruments in the banking book should be considered in the context of the assessment and management of exposures to IRRBB, including assets, liabilities, interest rate derivatives, non-interest rate derivatives referencing an interest rate and other off-balance sheet items. When evaluating the amounts, types and distributions of internal capital, institutions should base the contribution of IRRBB to the overall internal capital assessment on the institutions internal measurement systems outputs.Institutions should also consider the impact of the internal capital allocation for IRRBB on the overall capital adequacy of the institution.

Institutions should evaluate their internal capital adequacy for interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. This should include considering internal capital held for risks to economic value, internal capital needs arising from the impact of rate changes, internal limits on exposures, expected cost of hedging, sensitivity to modelling assumptions, shock and stress scenarios, embedded losses and gains, and the impact of capital allocation on overall capital adequacy. Institutions should use measurement systems and a range of interest rate shock and stress scenarios to calibrate the amount of internal capital to be held.Institutions should ensure that their IRRBB management strategy is subject to regular review and is updated to reflect changes in the market environment, the institutions risk appetite and the institutions business model.

Institutions should consider internal capital buffer adjustments when assessing whether or not to allocate internal capital to IRRBB to net interest income measures plus market value changes. The relative importance of net interest income to total net income, the actual levels of net interest income achievable, the potential for losses to be incurred, the importance of interest rate sensitive instruments, and the fluctuation of net interest income measures plus market value changes should all be taken into account. The IRRBB strategy should be part of the overall strategy, and the risk appetite for IRRBB should be expressed in terms of the acceptable impact of fluctuating interest rates. Institutions should assess proposals to use new products or engage in new activities, and should possess the necessary knowledge and expertise when using derivative instruments to mitigate IRRBB exposures. The IRRBB management strategy should be subject to regular review and updated to reflect changes in the market environment, risk appetite, and business model.The management body should ensure that the persons or committees to which tasks are delegated have the necessary skills and resources to carry out their tasks.The management body should also ensure that the persons or committees to which tasks are delegated are subject to appropriate oversight and review.

Institutions should ensure that their internal governance arrangements and processes for the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities are consistent and well integrated. The management body should bear ultimate responsibility for the oversight of the risk management framework, the risk appetite framework, and the amounts, types, and distribution of internal capital to adequately cover the risks. The management body should also establish clear lines of responsibility, a limit system, policies, processes, and internal controls, including regular independent reviews and evaluations of the framework. The management body should also be responsible for understanding the nature and level of the risk exposure, establishing appropriate actions to identify, measure, monitor, and control the risk, approving major hedging or risk-taking initiatives, carrying out oversight of the approval, implementation, and review of risk management policies, and understanding the implications of the institution's risk strategies.The management body should ensure that the institution has in place a process to monitor and control IRRBB exposures that are within the risk appetite and policy limits.

The management body should ensure that there is an adequate separation of responsibilities in the risk management process for IRRBB, that the institution's structure enables its delegates to carry out their responsibilities, and that there is regular communication between the risk management and strategic planning areas. The institution should articulate their risk appetite for IRRBB in terms of the risk to IRRBB measures, and should implement limits that target maintaining IRRBB exposures consistent with their risk appetite. The management body should also ensure that the institution has in place a process to monitor and control IRRBB exposures that are within the risk appetite and policy limits.This document outlines guidelines for the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. It outlines policies, processes, and controls that should be in place to ensure that procedures for updating scenarios for the measurement and assessment of IRRBB are set up, the assumptions of the models used are regularly reviewed, standards for the evaluation of positions and the measuring of performance are defined, and appropriate documentation and control over permissible hedging strategies and hedging instruments exist. It also outlines the need for regular reviews and evaluations of internal control systems and risk management processes to ensure personnel comply with established policies and procedures.The institution should ensure that the IT system is capable of producing reports on the IRRBB exposures and the results of the stress tests in a timely manner.

Institutions should have their interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities identified, measured, monitored, and controlled. This should be done through an independent auditing function, which may be an internal or external auditor, on a regular basis. The IT systems and applications used should be capable of capturing interest rate risk data, recording all transactions made by the institution, and computing the IRRBB measures. Adequate organizational controls should be in place to prevent the corruption of data used by IRRBB computer systems and applications, and to control changes to the coding used in those applications. Reports should be produced in a timely manner.Institutions should ensure that their risk measures are based on reliable market and internal data. They should have processes in place to ensure the accuracy and reliability of data, and should periodically review and test data mapping against an approved model version. Institutions should also have mechanisms in place to verify the correctness of the aggregation process and the reliability of model results. Internal risk-reporting systems should provide timely, accurate and comprehensive information about their exposures to IRRBB, and should include summaries of the institutions aggregate IRRBB exposures, reports demonstrating compliance with policies and limits, key modelling assumptions and parameters, and details of the impact of interest rate derivatives and fair value instruments on the IRRBB measures.This document outlines the guidelines for the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. It outlines the need for stress tests, shocks, supervisory outlier tests, and assessments of sensitivity to key assumptions and parameters. It also outlines the need for reviews of IRRBB policies, procedures, and adequacy of the measurement systems, including any findings of internal and external auditors or other equivalent external parties. The document also outlines the need for a formal policy process to be reviewed and approved by the management body or its delegates, which should include the validation of IRRBB measurement methods, the assessment of corresponding model risk, and the five core elements of evaluation of conceptual and methodological soundness, ongoing model monitoring, outcomes analysis, thorough assessment of any expert opinions and judgements used in internal models, and validation of diversification assumptions. The document also outlines the need for institutions to rely on third-party IRRBB models to manage and control IRRBB, provided that these models are adequately customised to properly reflect the specific characteristics of the institution in question.This document outlines guidelines for the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. Institutions should have a process in place to determine if third-party inputs are reasonable for their business and risk characteristics. Institutions should measure their exposure to IRRBB in terms of potential changes to both the economic value and net interest income measures plus market value changes. They should use a range of quantitative tools and models to capture various aspects of interest rate risk, and identify and measure all components of IRRBB. This includes gap risk, basis risk, and option risk.Institutions should regularly, at least annually, measure their exposure to IRRBB in the context of the different IRRBB measures under various interest rate stress scenarios for potential changes in the level and shape of the interest rate yield curves, and to changes in the relationship between different interest rates (i.e., basis risk).

This document outlines guidelines for the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. Institutions should use at least one net interest income measure plus market value changes and at least one economic value measurement method to capture all components of interest rate risk. Institutions should regularly measure their exposure to interest rate risk in the context of different measures under various interest rate shock and stress scenarios. These scenarios should reflect changes in the relationships between key market rates in order to address basis risk. The results of these scenarios should be considered when establishing and reviewing policies and limits for interest rate risk.When measuring IRRBB, institutions should consider the impact of changes in the interest rate environment on the net interest income and economic value of the institution, as well as the impact of changes in the interest rate environment on the market value of the institution.

Institutions should undertake rigorous, forward-looking stress testing to identify the potential adverse consequences of severe changes in market conditions on their capital, net interest income, economic value, and market value. This should include changes in the behaviour of their customer base and should be integrated into their overall stress-testing framework. Stress testing should be performed regularly, at least annually, and should include clearly defined objectives, tailored scenarios, well-documented assumptions, and sound methodologies. Institutions should also perform reverse stress tests to identify interest rate scenarios that could severely threaten their capital, economic value, and net interest income, as well as reveal vulnerabilities arising from their hedging strategies and the potential behavioural reactions of their customers. When measuring IRRBB, institutions should consider the impact of changes in the interest rate environment on the net interest income and economic value of the institution, as well as the impact of changes in the interest rate environment on the market value of the institution. They should also fully understand and document key behavioural and modelling assumptions, which should be aligned with business strategies and regularly tested.Institutions should take into account various assumptions related to interest rate risk quantification, such as the exercise of interest rate options, the treatment of balances and interest flows arising from non-maturity deposits, the treatment of fixed term deposits, the treatment of fixed rate loans and loan commitments, the implications of accounting practices, and validation of diversification assumptions. Institutions should review these assumptions at least annually, and more frequently during rapidly changing market conditions. They should also have policies in place governing the setting of, and the regular assessment of, the key assumptions for the treatment of on- and off-balance-sheet items that have embedded options in their interest rate risk framework. Non-maturity deposits from financial customers should not be subject to behavioural modelling, except for operational deposits. For retail and wholesale deposits from non-financial customers, the assumed behavioural repricing date should be constrained to a maximum weighted average repricing date of 5 years. Institutions should be able to identify core balances and modelling assumptions should reflect depositor and account characteristics.Institutions should ensure that the assumptions used to manage the risks to the different IRRBB measures sensitivities arising from equity capital are consistent with their overall risk appetite and risk management framework.

This document outlines guidelines for managing interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. It outlines the categories of retail and wholesale deposits, and the potential migration between deposits without specific repricing dates and other deposits. It also assesses potential constraints on the repricing of retail deposits in low or negative interest rate environments, and emphasizes the importance of statistical or quantitative methods to determine the behavioural repricing dates and the cash flow profile of non-maturity deposits. It also outlines corporate planning assumptions for own equity capital for the purpose of IRRBB, including an appropriate methodology for determining what elements of equity capital should be considered eligible, a prudent investment maturity profile, and stress testing to understand the sensitivity of risk measures to changes in key assumptions.Institutions should ensure that the CSRBB management framework is consistent with the overall risk management framework and is subject to the same governance and oversight as other risk management activities.

This document outlines the guidelines for the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. It states that institutions should make sure their systems and management information can identify the implications of their chosen approach for the volatility of both interest income and economic value. It also states that internal systems should be implemented in compliance with these guidelines, taking into account the principle of proportionality. Additionally, it outlines the perimeter of credit spread risk, which includes assets, liabilities, derivatives, and other off-balance sheet items, and states that small trading book business should be included unless its credit spread risk is captured in another risk measure. Lastly, it states that institutions should ensure that the credit spread risk management framework is consistent with the overall risk management framework and is subject to the same governance and oversight as other risk management activities.This document outlines the CSRBB strategy of an institution, which includes the risk appetite for CSRBB and should be part of the overall strategy. It explains that the management body must approve the strategic objectives and risk objectives, and that the risk appetite should be expressed in terms of the impact of fluctuating credit spreads on the different CSRBB measures. It also states that procedures to identify, measure and monitor CSRBB should be established when proposing new products or activities, and that internal governance arrangements and processes for the management of CSRBB should be consistent and well-integrated on a consolidated and sub-consolidated basis. The management body or its delegates should be responsible for understanding the nature and level of CSRBB exposure, establishing appropriate actions to assess and monitor CSRBB, approving major CSRBB risk-taking initiatives, carrying out oversight of the approval, implementation and review of CSRBB management policies and procedures, and understanding the implications of the institution's CSRBB strategies.Institutions should have appropriate IT systems and data quality management processes in place to ensure that the data used for CSRBB management are accurate, complete and up-to-date.

The document outlines the responsibilities of the management body of an institution to ensure that the institution has adequate resources and delegation arrangements in place for the assessment and monitoring of credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. It also outlines the policies, processes, and controls that should be in place to ensure that the risk management objectives are achieved. These include having an adequate separation of responsibilities in the risk management process, clear lines of authority over the units responsible for risk taking, and appropriate IT systems and data quality management processes. The management body should also ensure that regular communication between the risk management and strategic planning areas facilitate the monitoring of the risk arising from future business.The institution should also have a process in place to ensure that the reports are reviewed and discussed at the appropriate level of management.

This document outlines the IT systems and applications that should be used by institutions to manage credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. The systems should be capable of capturing credit spread data, recording transactions, and computing risk measures. The systems should also be tailored to the complexity and number of transactions creating credit spread risk, and should offer flexibility to accommodate a range of scenarios. Internal risk-reporting systems should provide timely, accurate, and comprehensive information about exposures to credit spread risk, and should be reviewed regularly. The reports should include summaries of the institution's aggregate credit spread exposures, key modelling assumptions, and information about portfolios that may be subject to significant mark-to-market movements. The institution should also have a process in place to ensure that the reports are reviewed and discussed at the appropriate level of management.This document outlines the internal measurement system that institutions should use to monitor their exposure to credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. The reports generated should be easily understood by different levels of management and should be used to ensure the institution is operating in line with its strategy. The policy should specify roles and responsibilities for the development, validation, documentation, implementation and use of models, as well as oversight responsibilities. Institutions should use their own assumptions and calculation methods for the assessment of CSRBB, and should take into account the implications of accounting practices. They should also review significant measurement assumptions at least annually.Gap risk (parallel and non-parallel risk)  The metric only applies to marginal interest rate changes.In the presence of convexity, the metric may underestimate the effect of larger interest rate movements. It fails to measure the basis and option risk.

This document outlines various methods for measuring interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. These methods include gap analysis, duration analysis, modified duration, PV01 of equity, partial modified duration, and partial PV01. These metrics measure gap risk, option risk, and basis risk, but are limited in that they only apply to marginal shifts of the yield curve and may underestimate the effect of larger interest rate movements.This document outlines guidelines for the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. Banks use assumptions and models to predict the path of interest rates, the maturing of existing assets, liabilities and off-balance-sheet items, and their potential replacement. Banks should use at least the level of sophistication in their risk measures shown in the table corresponding to their categorisation under the SREP Guidelines. All material sensitivities to the interest rate changes should be adequately captured, including sensitivity to behavioural assumptions. Gap risk (parallel and non-parallel), basis risk and, if all cash flows are modelled scenario dependent, also option risk are all risks that should be taken into account. The complexity of the metrics and models used should be appropriate to the size, structure and nature of the institution's activities.The Guidelines aim to ensure that institutions have adequate systems and processes in place to identify, measure, monitor and manage the interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities.The Guidelines also aim to ensure that institutions have adequate systems and processes in place to identify, measure, monitor and manage the interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities.The Guidelines provide indicative supervisory expectations regarding the IRRBB metric and modelling depending on the institution's sophistication category.The Guidelines also provide guidance on the use of economic value and duration analysis, and the application of standard and other interest rate shock and stress scenarios.The cost-benefit analysis shows that the Guidelines will result in increased costs for institutions, but also in improved risk management and increased transparency.Summary: The Guidelines aim to ensure that institutions have adequate systems and processes in place to identify, measure, monitor and manage the interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. The Guidelines provide indicative supervisory expectations regarding the IRRBB metric and modelling depending on the institution's sophistication category, as well as guidance on the use of economic value and duration analysis, and the application of standard and other interest rate shock and stress scenarios. The cost-benefit analysis shows that the Guidelines will result in increased costs for institutions, but also in improved risk management and increased transparency.This document outlines the European Banking Authority's (EBA) policy options for the definition and perimeter of Credit Spread Risk arising from Non-Trading Book Activities (CSRBB). The policy options include a definition of CSRBB relating to changes of market credit and market liquidity spreads as components of the yield (curve) for instruments of a specific credit worthiness/rating, and an option to include some idiosyncratic elements. The perimeter of CSRBB is not dependent on accounting treatment, but rather on sensitivity of an instrument to credit spread changes and its impact on the institution. The EBA also undertook a QIS in December 2020 which included data on the CSRBB exposures banks have, and from the data received, banks consider that their CSRBB exposures are concentrated in the asset side and particularly in debt securities.The European Banking Authority (EBA) has found that, on average, debt securities represent more than 90% of all assets exposed to Credit Spread Risk Bearing by Banks (CSRBB). Banks report liabilities exposed to CSRBB, mainly under the categories of debt securities issued and other liabilities, including deposits taken. On average, almost all (more than 99%) of their debt securities exposed to CSRBB are accounted at fair value. The EBA requested banks to provide their own qualitative assessment, as per their degree of CSRBB exposure, in the scale between 0% to 100%. Banks also provided data on the impact of a 1 basis point parallel upward shift of the credit spread curve on the present value of the respective exposures. The EBA opts for Policy option B for the definition of the perimeter and considers that idiosyncratic elements should not be included since they are generally covered in other risk framework, mainly the credit risk. The GL envisage some flexibility in the treatment of idiosyncratic elements, as long as the results would become more conservative. The EBA publicly consulted on the draft proposal and received 28 responses.The EBA clarifies that the criteria to identify non-satisfactory internal systems are not intended to be applied in a mechanical way.The EBA has held a public hearing on 3 March 2022 to discuss the draft Guidelines on the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities.The feedback from respondents was received on the five years repricing maturity cap for non-maturity deposits, with some expressing concerns on the impact that it might cause on some specific business models.The EBA has incorporated changes to the draft Guidelines as a result of the responses received during the public consultation and clarified that the criteria to identify non-satisfactory internal systems are not intended to be applied in a mechanical way.The Guidelines consider the impact on interest income and interest expenses and include supervisory expectations to consider market value changes of instruments at fair value under such analysis.The EBA also clarified that the five years cap should be applied as an average to the full amount of non-maturity deposits and that the intention of the Guidelines is to exclude non-performing exposures, rather than those under default only.

The EBA held a public hearing on 3 March 2022 to discuss the draft Guidelines on the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. Changes to the draft Guidelines were made as a result of the responses received during the public consultation, including a five years repricing maturity cap for non-maturity deposits. The Guidelines consider the impact on interest income and interest expenses and include supervisory expectations to consider market value changes of instruments at fair value under such analysis. The EBA clarified that the criteria to identify non-satisfactory internal systems are not intended to be applied in a mechanical way and that the five years cap should be applied as an average to the full amount of non-maturity deposits. The intention of the Guidelines is to exclude non-performing exposures, rather than those under default only.The EBA has clarified that proportionality is envisaged in the Guidelines and that it does not correspond to the Guidelines to refer to specific actions in case of non-satisfactory internal systems. The EBA has also assessed that a similar approach should be applied for the IRRBB and CSRBB frameworks. In response to the consultation paper, some respondents asked for clarification on what market value changes mean and whether cash flows hedges should be considered therein. The EBA clarified that the term market value changes refer only to market value changes that will be reflected when risk-free interest rates shift. A few respondents acknowledged that even when hedge accounting should be included, accounting ineffectiveness cannot be calculated a priori. The EBA also clarified that as changes in interest rates are reflected in items accounted at fair value, ineffectiveness per se is not considered, only accounting asymmetries. Paragraph 111 has been amended to clarify that the 5-year cap applies to the full amount of the aggregate portfolio of those deposits and that it follows a prudent approach to control a potentially overestimated profitability in the short-medium term.The EBA has proposed a 5-year cap on the average repricing maturity of non-maturity deposits (NMDs) for the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. This cap applies to the full amount of the aggregate portfolio of those deposits and separately individually for each currency. The EBA will regularly monitor the implementation of this cap, taking into account the concerns raised on some specific business lines, particularly cases where affected regulated products envisage specific legal features or economic constraints for withdrawals. The EBA will also monitor the implementation of this specific treatment for operational deposits in custody banks. The 5-year cap applies to the full amount of the aggregate portfolio of those deposits and separately individually for each currency. Non-maturity deposits from financial customers should not be subject to behavioural modelling. The EBA has also proposed objective criteria for the identification of non-satisfactory institutions internal systems for the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk.The EBA has proposed Guidelines on the Management of Interest Rate Risk and Credit Spread Risk Arising from Non-Trading Book Activities. The Guidelines focus on the specific items and criteria that need to be observed in the analysis of whether or not an internal system is satisfactory. The final assessment necessitates an individual analysis for each case. Respondents suggested the use of the IRRBB standardized approach (SA) methodology to eradicate supervisory discretion from the Guidelines. Materiality of the IRRBB IMS weaknesses is considered in the Guidelines, and respondents suggested that the SA should not be used as a benchmark to IRRBB IMS. There were also suggestions for a timeline to move from the IRRBB IMS to the IRRBB SA, and conditions to revert to the IRRBB IMS.No changes made.The EBA considers that the wording calibrated and reviewed should be clarified in order to avoid any misunderstanding.The EBA clarifies that the calibration and review should be made by the institution itself, and should be subject to the due governance and documentation that considers the nature, scale and complexity of the IRRBB inherent in the business model and the institution's activities.

This document outlines guidelines for competent authorities to assess the best way to handle non-satisfactory internal systems by requiring banks to apply a standardised methodology or by asking banks to engage in remediating actions. Proportionality is considered a general rule in the analysis of satisfactory internal systems, and the EBA has clarified that the calibration and review should be made by the institution itself and should be subject to the due governance and documentation that considers the nature, scale and complexity of the IRRBB inherent in the business model and the institution's activities. The EBA has also clarified that the concept of internal models should be privileged to the concept of internal measurement system, and that the calibration and review should be made on the internal model as a whole and not on every single parameter individually.VaR-based or scenario-based).No changes made.

The document discusses the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. It outlines the criteria for determining if an institution's internal systems are satisfactory, as well as the criteria for identifying, managing, and mitigating interest rate risk. It also discusses the need for methodological neutrality in the monitoring of credit spread risk, and the potential for both scenario-based and VaR-based Internal Measurement Systems to satisfy the NII and EVE requirements.The European Banking Authority (EBA) has released Guidelines on the Management of Interest Rate Risk and Credit Spread Risk Arising from Non-Trading Book Activities. The Guidelines provide definitional items of Credit Spread Risk Based Capital (CSRBB) for its harmonised identification for the purposes of its assessment and monitoring. The Guidelines also provide a dedicated item with general rules to ensure a minimum harmonisation with regards to the approach, method and assumptions for monitoring CSRBB. The EBA considers that when assessing changes in credit risk premium and liquidity premium movements, institutions can consider currency specific dimensions (i.e., EUR, USD, etc.) as a relevant dimension for market credit spread and market liquidity spread. Other dimensions should be explored by banks, such as by rating class, sector, region, product, or possibly also more granular, issuer-specific mapping. The EBA also considers that it does not correspond to the Guidelines to establish exemptions to Article 84(1) and (2) CRD and the necessary implementation of systems to identify, evaluate, manage and mitigate IRRBB and assess and monitor CSRBB. The EBA considers that CSRBB relates to the changes of market credit and market liquidity spreads as components of the yield (curve) for instruments of a specific credit worthiness/rating. The best proxies should be identified and applied for the definition of the yield curve for the computation of CSRBB. Respondents support excluding the migration and default risk from CSRBB. The EBA takes note of this comment.The EBA considers that the assessment of CSRBB should be performed for both assets and liabilities, including marketable instruments, as per the definition provided in the Guidelines.The EBA does not consider that the assessment of CSRBB should be limited to liquid assets measured at fair value.The EBA considers that the assessment of CSRBB should be performed for both assets and liabilities, including marketable instruments, as per the definition provided in the Guidelines.The EBA does not consider that the assessment of CSRBB should be limited to liquid assets measured at fair value.No changes made.

The EBA has clarified that the Guidelines on the Management of Interest Rate Risk and Credit Spread Risk Arising from Non-Trading Book Activities should explicitly and separately identify, assess, and monitor Credit Spread Risk Bearing Bank (CSRBB) and Interest Rate Risk Bearing Bank (IRRBB). The Guidelines also state that CSRBB should be part of the risk appetite of an institution and that the assessment of CSRBB should be performed for both assets and liabilities, including marketable instruments. The EBA does not consider that the assessment of CSRBB should be limited to liquid assets measured at fair value.This document discusses the potential for credit spread risk to materialize in amortized cost items such as bonds, loans, and deposits. It suggests that these items should be excluded from the scope of the Credit Spread Risk-Based Buffer (CSRBB) framework, but acknowledges that non-trading book assets at fair value should always be considered in the CSRBB perimeter. It also suggests that institutions might assess certain products (e.g., loans, deposits) where the margins in new business are under control of the bank and consider if it may be reasonable to introduce other drivers or assumptions which reflect potential lower correlations between administered rate margins and general market spreads.The EBA notes the comments and wishes to clarify that the net interest income measure should be based on the spread between the expected cash flows of the asset and the liability, including the credit spread component.No changes made.

This document is a final report on guidelines on the management of interest rate risk and credit spread risk arising from non-trading book activities. It summarizes responses received, provides an analysis by the European Banking Authority (EBA), and makes amendments to the proposals. The report clarifies the treatment of derivatives in the assessment of credit spread risk, excludes non-performing exposures from the scope, and defines the term "market" as referring to either a reference liquid market or assumptions market participants would use when pricing an asset or liability. It also clarifies that the net interest income measure should be based on the spread between the expected cash flows of the asset and the liability, including the credit spread component.The EBA has proposed a framework for assessing credit spread risk from both an EVE and NII perspective in line with the CRDV mandate. This framework includes a wide perimeter of assets and liabilities, which some respondents have noted could be conceptually and operationally challenging. The EBA has clarified that positions sensitive to CSRBB should in principle be included in the assessment of CSRBB, but that materiality assessments and the possibility to demonstrate that the risk is already measured and managed elsewhere could be used to exclude positions.2 has been amended to include further clarification on this matter.

Respondents have asked for a pragmatic approach and suggested enhancing the application of the principle of proportionality in this case. They have recommended allowing the introduction of a threshold to ensure that small banks, and more generally banks with immaterial risk exposures, can be excluded from the CSRBB calculation process. They have also suggested the EBA to identify classes of products that may be excluded from the CSRBB assessment, as to better ensure the level playing field. The EBA has noted the comments and wishes to clarify that the CRDV mandate for the EBA to develop the guidelines refers in particular to the assessment and monitoring of the CSRRBB, and providing guidance on capital adequacy is out of scope of the mandate. The GL has been amended to include further clarification on this matter, and the EBA has clarified that institutions should have separate assessments of CSRBB and other risks, including IRRBB.This document discusses the scope of the Guidelines on the Management of Interest Rate Risk and Credit Spread Risk Arising from Non-Trading Book Activities. It highlights the discrepancy between Article 84(6) Directive 2013/36/EU (CRD) and paragraph 14 of the Guidelines, which prescribes to institutions also managing and mitigating CSRBB. It also discusses the definition of net interest income, inflation, economic value measure for IRRBB, and CSRBB governance. The EBA acknowledges the comments and has made amendments to the proposals accordingly.The EBA has amended the Guidelines to clarify that the management body may delegate the monitoring and management of CSRBB to senior management, expert individuals or an asset and liability management committee.The EBA has also clarified that institutions should have separate assessments of credit spread risk and interest rate risk, and that institutions may investigate whether potential diversification benefits exist between their CSRBB and IRRBB.The EBA has amended the Guidelines to delay the implementation date of the parts related to CSRBB to 31 December 2023.The EBA has clarified that the management body may delegate the monitoring and management of CSRBB to senior management, expert individuals or an asset and liability management committee, and that institutions should have separate assessments of credit spread risk and interest rate risk.The EBA has also clarified that institutions may investigate whether potential diversification benefits exist between their CSRBB and IRRBB, and has delayed the implementation date of the parts related to CSRBB to 31 December 2023.